Lilliana Robinson: Okay, guys. So this is Brent Payne. A lot of people, Brent, actually, on Monday, we're talking about how they need help with SEO. So I was like, oh, I have the perfect thing for you planned this week. Brent has been coming to our Chicago programs for years. Always a fan favorite. And now Super, grateful that he's willing to help out with our Bay area program. So he's really an expert in this. It's he helps startups all the time. So make sure that if you have any questions you ask this will be pretty interactive. So like.
Lilliana Robinson: feel free to just have a discussion, and he's going to go through the companies
Lilliana Robinson: in the order they were in in the look. So if we don't get to, you, feel free to reach out to Brent separately. I know Brent usually like companies to email you. Is that correct?
Brent D. Payne: Yup, that's great!
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, awesome. Well, I'll hand it over to you so we can make the most of our time.
Brent D. Payne: Great. Thanks for having me. Yeah, I've been doing this for quite a while with the techstars teams. At 1 point it was up to like 2025 locations.
Brent D. Payne: but that was during Covid and I kind of backed off because that was a lot
Brent D. Payne: but it was, it was a lot of fun. And and I'm enjoying working with. I think I have like 5 or 6 that I'm still working with out of the tech stores locations. Still.
Brent D. Payne: So this actually was built out of not being able to go to conferences. We used to do site clinics live at conferences. Have people throw their business cards in a bowl, and we'd pull a card and we go through it. We'd have beers on the table and shots at Tequila we'd have like trench coat, or like lab coats on from like doctors like clinic. It was fun by drop, most of the antics, and
Brent D. Payne: you know, don't know the alcohol be the right thing to to be throwing into these as well. But it was fun in live and in in the clinics. So but we're gonna get into this summit. A lot of you are pretty new. So we're not gonna talk too much about link building and link structure with each of you individually. I will give some overall general things that you need to do. But we're not going to get into like the nitty gritty of link building for each individual.
Brent D. Payne: I guess company.
Brent D. Payne: If you have a specific question about link building, please do ask it when you're you know, when I'm going through your company, or if we decide to cut it off and do a. QA. At the end, which might be a good idea.
Brent D. Payne: Then. We'll go ahead and open it up for QA. For anybody has questions specifically around link building.
Brent D. Payne: But with that I'm going to get started and just kind of run through like I said the lookbook and go from there saying, if people aren't here that's cool.
Brent D. Payne: We'll just move on to the next one. No
Brent D. Payne: offense taken, and I'm sorry for the reschedule.
Brent D. Payne: I'm like, you guys, I'm also very busy. So
Brent D. Payne: I've got a lot of things going on. I was sick for 2 days, and it just put me behind. So.
Lilliana Robinson: It's alright. Afford health.
Brent D. Payne: Priest did.
Brent D. Payne: Ford, health! Are you here?
Lilliana Robinson: Nelson.
Brent D. Payne: Hey, Nelson, talk to me! Tell me your elevator pitch. What do you guys do.
Nelson Mitchell: We help patients manage their medical bills through organization error, checking and negotiation with healthcare providers and
Nelson Mitchell: insurers, and then also payments.
Brent D. Payne: Okay? So one quick question, have you guys looked into the all the medical codes as an option? Have you guys looked into that from like a content, perspective or not.
Nelson Mitchell: No, that's an interest. I mean, there's so many.
Brent D. Payne: There are, and there are a lot of searches around those that you may want to look into as soon as you can. The reason for that is that we have done a lot of work with other health, like insurance type companies, etc. And we've noticed that a lot of the
Brent D. Payne: search volume is really around these codes. And so that might be a good thing for you guys to jump into right away. You can just build out a lot of content around each of the codes. Individual landing pages for each one. Talk about what they mean.
Brent D. Payne: You know, just the, the, the given questions around what those might be would be helpful.
Brent D. Payne: Do you feel that aligns with you or not?
Nelson Mitchell: I mean, that's
Nelson Mitchell: that is interesting. Like to to try to to rank higher.
Nelson Mitchell: My source material would be
Nelson Mitchell: the you know the ama
Nelson Mitchell: way that they describe the code, so I'd probably, I guess, to not violate copyright have to do some kind of word massaging on on the descriptions of the codes, is.
Brent D. Payne: Well, let's look at it real quick. So there's not a lot going on here, cause you guys are new.
Brent D. Payne: But but this is a tool called a traps. What it does is it looks at your backlink profile. Primarily also gives you a lot of information on keywords information for SEO.
Brent D. Payne: I highly recommend you guys at least get some type of login for this. Maybe you guys share it across the entire techstars group. I think that's conditions. But whatever you guys decide to do, it's a very helpful tool. So I'm gonna look at the keywords, explore real quick. And it. Do you know one of the codes or not? That's that. What are they called? I I are queue codes, or Icq. What are they called.
Nelson Mitchell: Cpt. Codes.
Brent D. Payne: Cpt code. Thank you.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah.
Nelson Mitchell: Brent, I should just mention that. I updated my landing page, and now it's try dot afford health, so that the dub just goes to a.
Brent D. Payne: Redirect.
Nelson Mitchell: Use that links through. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: So these Cpt codes things that make sense to you.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah. Yeah. Like, 9, 9, 2, 1, 3.
Brent D. Payne: Right? So oh, also someone watch my time, please, and let me know generally like 7, 10. Thanks. Alright. So yeah, these codes this, this is the search volume that's happening. Okay, so search volume just in the United States. And just Google.
Brent D. Payne: and we are seeing a massive amount of searches happening for this 23,000 searches little difficult for you to rank for this is a keyword difficulty score. It's they're trying to mimic what the Google algorithm probably does. It's not super super accurate, but it's definitely a directional.
Brent D. Payne: And it is a logarithmic scale from 0 to 100. So as you can see 66, and 63 would be really hard for you guys to ring for. You have to be like a small media company really, to get that type of link structure. But the fours, the sixes, the threes, the fives, like all of these, are just gold for you at 6.8,000 searches a month, 5.2,000 searches a month, etc. And it could really drive some awareness and and get people to the website itself.
Brent D. Payne: But you would need to write something about it and dig into it. I would lean on the Llms for this if I were you. You know I think that would be a really good place to start. You could even, you know.
Brent D. Payne: scrape the Ama website, pull the data and pull that into your prompt with the Lm and have it be a little tighter as far as relevancy is concerned. And then we do have a fact checker that we just made today. Where you like. Go through. I'll let you guys borrow it and use it where you can go through and make sure that the facts are actually accurate, and and the Lm. Didn't hallucinate anything. So
Brent D. Payne: it would be a smart move. There are a lot of these, I think overall volumes, 2.1 million on the codes. So I got lucky with you on something to quickly mention. Outside of that, what would be your number one phrase you'd like to rank for.
Nelson Mitchell: Medical Bill Help.
Brent D. Payne: Medical billing, health or Medical Bill, Health.
Nelson Mitchell: Medical. Bill. Help. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Medical Bill, help. Sorry.
Brent D. Payne: So Medical
Brent D. Payne: Bill.
Brent D. Payne: and 2 terms. Let's get
Brent D. Payne: help in there.
Brent D. Payne: Help assistance
Brent D. Payne: separate company systems.
Brent D. Payne: So medical Bill. Assistance is a little better than help, so number one might want to start with assistance.
Brent D. Payne: Number 2. It's also harder to ring from Medical Bill. Help and look at the volumes. How low they are in comparison to what we were just looking at. So I I love what you guys are doing. I think that you need to come about it a little sideways. Because if people are looking for those Cpt codes
Brent D. Payne: pro might be on an insurance bill right? Trying to figure out what it is, how it works. Etc. So there are some other questions here for like who qualifies for financial assistance for medical bills. I don't know if
Brent D. Payne: that works for you a little better volume at 1.7,000 etc.
Brent D. Payne: So when you're building out the site. You're gonna wanna make sure you include some of these key phrases in there
Brent D. Payne: when I'm looking at your homepage. Obviously not a lot there. When we go here.
Brent D. Payne: Master, your medical bills is close the Lms might be able to figure that out. Google might be able to figure that out. I think getting relevancy completely right for you guys as a startup is super important. So as you get more link structure, you get more established, you get more authority, etc. I think there's a scenario where you guys can be a little looser on relevancy.
Brent D. Payne: But now I would highly recommend that you guys get the key phrases that you want to rank for in the title tags in the H tags or the big bold text here.
Brent D. Payne: you know, headlines of the pages. Try and get that key phrase in that first paragraph.
Brent D. Payne: and then you can kind of.
Brent D. Payne: you know, back off a year from now and get a little more marketing. Savvy? But you've gotta get people to the website. Obviously, you don't want SEO to get in the way of conversion or your brand. But we do need to make sure that we
Brent D. Payne: you know, get people to the website used to joke. I I was the SEO director for Tribune for a number of years handled, but like 7 different newspapers and 70 different broadcast sites.
Brent D. Payne: and I tell them all the time. It's like peel surprisement and journalism is awesome. And it's really important. But we also need to make sure that we're relevant for the key phrases that we're trying to show up. For example of that was the Hudson River plane. Crash. We changed the headline from 2 wings in a prayer to plane crashes into Hudson River
Brent D. Payne: New York Times. Did not. They had some other, you know, fairly relevant headline, and we ranked number one or 2
Brent D. Payne: for Hudson River plane. Crash got 6 million visits to the site.
Brent D. Payne: and we reported on an Ap story and just rewrote it. So they watched the plane sink in the Hudson, and they were on the fourth page of Google.
Brent D. Payne: So you know, relevancy really matters. Sometimes it really matters even with larger sites. But for startups it's absolutely imperative that you guys get that right? So highly recommend. I like medical bills here.
Brent D. Payne: You know. Get help with your medical bills might be smart.
Brent D. Payne: You know, whatever it is you're trying to do, or you know, medical Bill, assistance made easy, or something, you know through throughout the end of that would be would be good.
Lilliana Robinson: That's about our time for Nelson.
Brent D. Payne: Great?
Brent D. Payne: Frequently asked questions. I love this. Okay? Frequently asked questions are great. How much does this cost? How much does what cost? What is this right, medical Bill? Assistance cost? How much time does it take to get?
Brent D. Payne: my medical bill help that I'm looking for? At least be a little more specific, and how these a Faqs happen. Also, there's a tool in here for questions
Brent D. Payne: that really would help out for you. We'll get rid of this.
Brent D. Payne: and you know what happens if you don't pay a medical bill like there's just a ton of questions in here that you could easily answer.
Brent D. Payne: Either via a blog post or via fa ques on each of the pages. So happy to spend more time with you if you're interested 30 min
Brent D. Payne: totally free. Brent allowed us to set that up, or Brent's calendar.com. If you want to dig into it a little bit more. See if I can get you farther down the road on the on the medical codes, as well as the medical billing stuff.
Brent D. Payne: Awesome, thanks, Brent, thanks, Nelson. Alright.
Lilliana Robinson: For every for everyone on the call. Everybody is a good example for everybody else. So everything you just did with Nelson. You guys can follow along on the platform as well after this. So I just wanted you guys to know, since we have 24, not everyone's going to go through. So make sure you're still paying attention because it's all extremely relevant to you guys as well. You're all at similar stages.
Lilliana Robinson: And, Brent, I already shared their your email in in our project management platform with them. So they know.
Brent D. Payne: This week. Look at you, a plus student. I love it. Awesome. Alright, alibi! Are you guys here?
Brent D. Payne: Come on. This was a fun one.
Brent D. Payne: So.
Lilliana Robinson: They pivoted. So this actually isn't going to be their website anymore. So we can skip this one.
Brent D. Payne: Okay, next, anywhere.
Lilliana Robinson: They're here. Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: I'm here. Hi, Lynn!
Brent D. Payne: What do you guys do.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Okay, we have a wearable in a nap that measure your level of stress and anxiety and help you announce your mental wellbeing every day.
Brent D. Payne: Nice. I like it. I love wearables. I'm really into it. I've lost 55 pounds since Christmas Day, and so, like, I'm all about the wearables right now. It's like anything I can track at like anything at all. I am on the Gop one. So I am quote cheating. But it is awesome, and so totally into the wearables. Alright, so it measures some type of
Brent D. Payne: biometric to make you realize that you're all stressed out. You need to calm down a little or something. I'll access your calmness. Most centered self.
Brent D. Payne: So what do you think the head phrases for this like, what is it? Do you like
Brent D. Payne: trying to really hit.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: It's
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: yeah. So we're revising the the the web website completely. I mean, this was the first draft. But we wanna we wanna address the cluster of users that are stressed. And they wanna measure. They like to measure just like you said by the way, I I lost 40 pounds myself, too, thanks to the apple watch. And now I just got the order ring.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So we wanna we wanna tackle those kind of users that you know, they wanna track their their progress, that mental mental wellbeing. Basically, I think the key would be mental. Well, being stress, emotional regulation and stress regulation.
Brent D. Payne: Cut.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, like measure stress. Do you not want them to be into neurofeedback therapy anymore? So like, that's not.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, we are kind of setting that aside, we're like with the new Jbds, we are more focused towards the continuous monitoring of stress. And so, yeah, yeah.
Brent D. Payne: So stress management, you're never gonna ring for nor stress management techniques or skills. So we gotta stay away from what you really, really, really really want. And we gotta find other ways to get to it from an SEO perspective.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So, Brent, if you can clarify these numbers. But I'm not following that well here. So what are we looking, and what what should we stay away from, and.
Brent D. Payne: Yup, can you.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: So stress stress management would be a very big key phrase, 17,000 searches a month. But it's super difficult. It's a keyword difficulty of like an 88. You're gonna have to be like a web, Md, or you know, one of the major hospitals in order to be able to rank for this. You're also in a space that's called your money or your life.
Brent D. Payne: So you know it's not super your money or your life, but it's like, right on the edge. It's health related. So Google has a full other algorithm of critiquing the content that's on the pages to verify its authority, backlink structure, etc, much, much, much more difficult to rank in the Yml section of the Internet.
Brent D. Payne: So you need to be very careful with your citations, make sure you cite things as much as you possibly can in any of your blog posts. Make sure you have a a accurate bibliography, or or references at the bottom of the pages. Use things like medically reviewed by or you know, things like that. You're gonna really need to layer heavily into your website, authority and trust inside of the site.
Brent D. Payne: So what I would recommend are individual author pages that have a profile for the author a link back to their linkedin page, because it's a fairly trusted source for them to be able to scrape and see what's going on there. A link back to any other place you can vouch for the relevancy of whoever that author is that's writing content
Brent D. Payne: and then go back from their example with Dr. Rivas, one of the weight loss management clients that we have. They, you know, have a special profile just for Dr. Rivas. We're
Brent D. Payne: changing that a bit to make sure that Dr. Rivas has his medical schooling background a link to where his medical clinics are. And we're really trying to exude authority and trust on the site.
Brent D. Payne: There's a lot of detail there, but really just spend some time doing digging a little bit into some of the SEO best practices for banking profiles. Ex, you know, creating trust and authority on web pages. And you'll be much better off that, said stress management. Even with all of that, you're not gonna be able to win because it's got a keyword difficulty in 88, which is just outrageously high, almost like Cnn level.
Brent D. Payne: So
Brent D. Payne: we gotta find ways to come at stress management from around something that's not mentioning stress stress management itself. Let's try stress
Brent D. Payne: straight up
Brent D. Payne: and then dig into
Brent D. Payne: the easier terms is a great one stress rash. You'd be able to talk about that. It's not quite where you are today. But by the end of most of these cohorts most of you will end up in the thirties or so you want to target lower thirties to, you know, somewhere in there is where you'll end up. Making that
Brent D. Payne: you'll you'll have enough link structure from enough to press enough of the things that happen throughout the, you know, accelerator program that you guys end up in a pretty good spot from a link structure perspective. So I would target this 30 range. If you guys use the tool later for you, stress rash might be one of those great topics to cover. You know, why is this happening? How you can help deal with it. Stress hives is another one.
Brent D. Payne: See how I'm coming about it sideways on getting you relevant traffic.
Brent D. Payne: but also making sure that you
Brent D. Payne: aren't going after terms that are way way too difficult for you.
Brent D. Payne: Stress synonym. And it's kind of useless CPU stress desk is not really thing stress balls.
Brent D. Payne: You could get into that. But it
Brent D. Payne: really important lately, with Google's algorithm is staying pretty tight to your taxonomy, to your words the information that's on your site and try not to go too far off in left field to capture traffic. They had a whole update that was just about targeting websites that are
Brent D. Payne: trying to just create content for SEO, and so stay tied to truly being helpful to your users. What they need. Ha! What you're related to, and stress balls might be like right on the cusp, for there, I would say, it falls outside of what you guys wanna do unless you really use them a lot for some reason. But let's focus more on what your app can do. And you know what what the the wearable can help you to to achieve.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Emotional regulation. For example.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, emotional regulation might be a great way to go around this. So
Brent D. Payne: I don't think there'll be any volume for like people searching for. But let's find out I may be wrong.
Brent D. Payne: So emotional regulation. Yeah, 13,000.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Huh! Right? So.
Brent D. Payne: Not bad, but it's really difficult as well.
Brent D. Payne: Then we drop off pretty significantly. So what is emotionally regulation.
Brent D. Payne: you know, it's only got a thousand searches a month. You know, and maybe that's enough for you. Right? Maybe you're trying to target that type of stuff and and let's not get too obsessed with the volume. Number volume numbers important because we wanna make sure any efforts are putting forth actually have people looking for this. But
Brent D. Payne: if it's a perfectly matched key phrase for you, and it's only a couple of 100 searches a month, and you know that's exactly what your users, looking for high 5. Go for it, grab it, especially if it's an easy term to to manage. So you know, I don't know if you target kids or not. But you know there's some stuff here, Adhd, and emotional regulation. So there are some good ties here. It's just much lower volume.
Brent D. Payne: But what is a total 46,000 altogether.
Brent D. Payne: and the top 4 terms make up, you know.
Brent D. Payne: 15,000 20,000 of that.
Brent D. Payne: So you do have a longer tail here
Brent D. Payne: that might be
Brent D. Payne: useful.
Brent D. Payne: I I don't dislike emotional regulation.
Brent D. Payne: I think you did rank for that pretty quickly.
Brent D. Payne: I do think that stress
Brent D. Payne: the key phrase stress, and then finding ways around it might be more helpful and get you quicker results.
Brent D. Payne: The idea of SEO is to put you on a path where you're getting free traffic to the website so that all your metrics look better. So you can pitch better to people that are gonna write you checks. So I love the techstars groups because we can truly make an impact to your overall pack right to your
Brent D. Payne: just your overall model. And why people would want to invest in your business. So it's important. There, Vincent, you had a question.
Vincent Lucero: Yes, my question was,
Vincent Lucero: does the Google search engine work differently for not just finance and life stuff? I know that's true, but do are they able to separate between.
Vincent Lucero: direct to consumer Fintech versus B. 2 B sales Fintech, because consumers need to be protected for sure. I know that their policies are on that. But B 2 B, we might get caught up in that same algorithm. I was curious what your experience has been for like B, 2 B sales.
Brent D. Payne: I would agree that
Brent D. Payne: Google is, gonna look at it more from a
Brent D. Payne: key phrases, taxonomy level, which would probably affect B, 2 BI don't have a
Brent D. Payne: perfect answer for you. So I I will research that and get an answer to you if you reach out via email Brent at loudus but
Brent D. Payne: I would assume that you will have the same problem. Okay, Alejandra.
Alejandra Guillen: Yes, I work with Antonio in aware, and about the authoring of the articles. We are actually writing some of the articles and asking our advisory scientists in therapies to edit them, and so they would be editors with their profile. And Linkedin, as you were saying, is that equivalent or good enough.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, it is. As a matter of fact, we are using AI generated content for a number of telehealth companies and then having them medically reviewed by Xyz with a big, fat certification or medical degree, or something. But verifiable is the core here, and think of verifiable from a search engine perspective
Brent D. Payne: not just a human perspective. You want both because humans also need to trust you. But the SEO side of it is that you need to be able to crawl the pages, link to pages and have words on the pages that you're going to that would allow them to trust it.
Brent D. Payne: So don't you know? Don't use like Dr. Jp. Morgan right like we gotta have. Dr. I don't know what the Jane the P. Stand for. I should know that sorry but like we needed, you know, spell out the full name. Disambiguate is the core problem. Gotta disambiguate that Brent pain from the Brent pane that sings country music. Okay?
Brent D. Payne: So that's that's really important. Alright, we have a couple of questions, Malcolm.
Malc: Yeah, you got it right. Thanks, Brent. This has been excellent so far. Really appreciate it. Just pulling up a question from the chat. So I think a few of us are curious if you can just orient us to what we're looking at more specifically, the other columns. So just kind of thinking strategically, like I see cost per click some other things. So just curious. How you go about breaking all that down for us.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah. So again a tool, a traps 6, 70 bucks a month or something. I don't know what it is. I spend 2 grand a month on it, because I have some crazy late login emotional regulation. As obviously the key phrase key. Katie stands for keyword, difficulty, logarithmic scale 0 to 100. So it takes twice as much effort to go from 10 to 20, twice as much effort again to go from 20 to 30 etc, etc, etc. So junior high math plays really important here. It is not like linear.
Brent D. Payne: You have to have a doubling effect for each 10 that you move, which becomes outrageously difficult when you start getting.
Brent D. Payne: you know, above, like 50, 60, etc. This here is search volume, for the United States. That's currently flagged here for Google, which is currently flagged here. You can look a bunch of other stuff in here if you want
Brent D. Payne: I pretty much use Google. But Youtube's useful Amazon sometimes, etc. You can pull down. Then you have the chart of kind of the last 13 months of what it looks like. So you can see like cool spikes and drop. So Adhd, emotional regulation has significant drop off. Not sure. Why,
Brent D. Payne: don't know.
Brent D. Payne: Gsc, is global search volume. So this is country based. This is global. Md is mobile versus desktop breakdown. It's usually about the same always you can see
Brent D. Payne: looks like there are a couple here. So this is mainly a desktop
Brent D. Payne: query.
Brent D. Payne: and then tp, I don't remember what this stands for traffic potential is worthless. Ach, like, algorithm is horrific when it comes to this.
Brent D. Payne: So they're trying to mimic like, how much traffic they think the website gets mostly used for black hat SEO and buying links and saying that you have a market for it because they're real links. In reality, guys, it's just a bunch of crap. I can show Google search console data which has accurate information. Google analytics data.
Brent D. Payne: And it is sometimes 17 x off. From what this traffic number is, Cpc is literally cost per click. I don't do cost per click, so I don't know how reliable the Cpc number is, but it is very directional
Brent D. Payne: cps is a a number of clicks per search. So some searches are more research oriented, so they'll go to more than one click looking at, you know, buying airline tickets or something. You look at 5 or 6 of them as you can see here. This has a lot much higher cps or clock clicks per search
Brent D. Payne: than others. So they're clearly researching emotional regulation activities. They want to look at more than one get a bunch of ideas from a bunch of different blog posts, etc.
Brent D. Payne: So that's how that works. Parent topic.
Brent D. Payne: Sf, is search features. So search engine results, pages, features. What's all the crap that's on the website for Google other than blue links. And then when a transfer saw this particular
Brent D. Payne: don't know a particular something
Brent D. Payne: the the keyword. And then last time it was updated. Usually it's pretty good over here.
Brent D. Payne: so so that's what it is as we go through the rest of the thing. Great question. Sorry. Alright!
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's our time for aware, Antonio, if you have a super fast question. But then we need to move on.
Brent D. Payne: Yep, sorry, Angela.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Question which which is extra for everyone, probably. So how am I gonna use this? So if I look at those key words, basically, I need to try to use as many as possible on the content I generate on the web page. And so, instead of writing just emotional regulation, maybe in a title put, what is emotional regulation, emotion regulation skills, for example, try to try to write the content in every page on my on my website.
Brent D. Payne: So we target 3 key phrases for a home page.
Brent D. Payne: About 5 key phrases, maybe 10
Brent D. Payne: on a category level page, and then as much as 20 key phrases in a blog post. Now
Brent D. Payne: the ais
Brent D. Payne: and search engines are much smarter than what they ever have been, so do not keyword stuff your articles, do not make your content crap by putting it in a bunch of key phrases. So smartly. Integrate these key phrases where you can
Brent D. Payne: the length of the post is not what matters. It is the breadth and depth of the content on the page around the core key phrase that usually means. The more words you put on the page, the easier it is to accomplish breadth and depth. However, it's not keyword count that matters. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: So typically it takes 1,500 to 2,500 words on a blog post to really get that depth that you need. But if you're doing a great job mentioning awesome like entities, novel entities different types of key phrases that you just completely nailed Ontonio right? Being able to work these into a blog post as best you can.
Brent D. Payne: awesome, totally and completely awesome. But
Brent D. Payne: if you make the content, crap, the ais and the search engines will know.
Brent D. Payne: and it's not going to work. Also, you need to have positive feedback loop from the users.
Brent D. Payne: So if you have, poor user engagement on your content
Brent D. Payne: doesn't matter what you do, you're going to have a really hard time ranking. Not impossible, but a really hard time ranking your content unless you do crazy things like rent residential Ips and Amazon aws, and you have it fakely. Crawl your pages, and, you know, go through this whole rigor or to like in impact those type of metrics that Google might be looking at
Brent D. Payne: so anyway, there are ways around a lot of stuff, but usually just doing it. The right way is much smarter and frankly, much more sustainable. Okay, alright. Then move on again. I'm available.
Brent D. Payne: Cicada music. What do you guys do.
Lilliana Robinson: They're here.
Mark Kirzhner: Hey? Hello, so we we help musicians get monetization. Better monetization of their concerts, their gigs.
Brent D. Payne: Nice. Okay, you picked a rough time to pick the name Cicada.
Brent D. Payne: So you were. You're aware that, like, there's like a massive brood of cicadas happening this year, right?
Mark Kirzhner: I am I. I was not, but.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah. So you're gonna have a hard time ranking on Cicada because of all of the news in and around all of these bugs that are like this big that come out and start flying around. And it's like one of the biggest years and 17 years for cicadas to be released from the ground. It's gonna start happening as soon as spring comes.
Brent D. Payne: Not saying.
Mark Kirzhner: Right.
Brent D. Payne: You like.
Mark Kirzhner: Here to yeah, to promote ourselves in the other ways with the.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, I mean, maybe you could. But you're gonna have a lot of noise in your search results for the word cicada. So I would try and integrate into your name. Cicada music. I know that your your domain is cicada music. But I would almost put it into your logo as well.
Brent D. Payne: Just because you're gonna be fighting a significant uphill battle on the word cicada for a while.
Brent D. Payne: I am not a brand marketer. I'm an SEO.
Brent D. Payne: So if you hate it from a brand marketing perspective, that's your call to make. But be careful, because the news is going to be all over these stupid cicadas for a while at least, through the end of summer.
Mark Kirzhner: So we we yeah, we were just thinking, you know, cicada cicada music. It started.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, I think.
Mark Kirzhner: Like, spotify music, and then became spotify. So so we thought, start the security music, but then move to Cicada. But if you, if you give us different advice, will.
Brent D. Payne: No, I think cicada, music's great. But I think you should integrate it here and get people to say it, and every time you mentioned your entity, you need sophisticated music, redoing interview for anything, podcast or whatever it is, you guys are doing to promote this, say, cicada music. So when the Ais Lms and the search engines, I'll pick up this data. Your entity is tied to cicada music more than just cicada
Brent D. Payne: where you're gonna get squished by the the bugs that are out there. That was a fun. That was a fun plan. Words, okay, security music. You guys also are doing much better on link structure than everybody else. You're already at a 17, for example, most of the sites out here are not getting this many links already. You have 34 different links from 17 different domains. What are you doing? And how are you getting these? Looks like you fill out a bunch of play of company profiles.
Brent D. Payne: So guys.
Brent D. Payne: great example of what you should be doing to get just the baseline stuff going for SEO link structure. They have a
Brent D. Payne: crunch space. They are on player FM, they have a link from techstars which every single one of you should have a link from techstars to your site. If you change your domain a thousand times during this, make sure you get that link updated to be going to your new
Brent D. Payne: you know, domain, whatever might be. So that's really important. I don't know if Jp. Morgan is giving out links to everybody. But wow! That'd be a nice ask for tech stars to get done for you guys. I'm not sure where Jp. Morgan's had on this, but a link from Chase or Jp. Morgan would be outrageously powerful for all of you.
Brent D. Payne: So thinking about that from a link buildings perspective. Again, you know more profiles and things set up. How did you get all these set up? Did you just go through and manually do this? Or is there a submission tool?
Brent D. Payne: This is quite a few, for as young as you are.
Mark Kirzhner: So so some of the things that I can tell you how some of them I don't know this is should be a question to our CEO, yeah. Been been in some some of the.
Brent D. Payne: I love podcasts for at for a link building. By the way, the podcasts are still very viral. They tend to like automatically populate to dozens of other podcast sites. So if you can get a podcast set up for yourself, have a a decent, conversation, be mindful of the words, you say in the podcast
Brent D. Payne: try and have, like some notes written down next to you with different key phrases, need to hit on cause. It does get, you know, picked up and understood. And then be careful how you mentioned your entity and what you guys do. etc.
Brent D. Payne: I think podcasts are a great way to build some links for you. It's even smarter because you're in the music. Industry. So it makes a ton of sense for you
Brent D. Payne: but I did like your link structure, and you're one of them that I wanted to dig into
Brent D. Payne: overall anchors. So anchor text matters the blue underlying links that are like the text that's in the blue underlying link matters. So think about that when you're building out your site, how you want to be
Brent D. Payne: jumping to each of these different pages. So monetization, maybe music, monetization, artist monetization will be a little stronger
Brent D. Payne: if you don't like the way that looks you can put a title attribute on your a tags. It is not a title. Tag is a title attribute, and what it does is, can I quickly do this in the code or not?
Brent D. Payne: I'm not gonna do it. It'll take too much time. What it does. It gives you an a helper text over the top of this, and it also sends a pretty strong signal to Google.
Brent D. Payne: what the pages relevancy it it
Brent D. Payne: it allows you to add more. Here, I'll just do it this way. I'll give you an example.
Mark Kirzhner: So so. So, I think live performance or concert monetization. Do you mean, like you hover above it? And you see some text.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, yeah. So we did it for
Brent D. Payne: for this is one of our current clients. 5, 11 tax bill. You'll see here that it says new arrivals, but, as you help protect it says new men's taxable gear, much more relevant for us on the title attributes here
Brent D. Payne: training is men's workout clothes outdoors, actually, men's outdoor clothing. See what we did? We kept the nav clean, cause I couldn't get Brand the division to sign off on the ones I wanted. So we snuck them in with title attributes instead. It's a good way. This one's a little long, I think that's a coding issue.
Brent D. Payne: But normally you want to keep this succinct but and accurate, because you don't want to. Mess up your aria you're like, more or less for all the blind people and stuff crawling the Internet. There are certain laws actually, that you can't.
Brent D. Payne: you know, break. So you have to stay relevant to where it's going, but you can take some liberty as to what you're doing. So men's outdoor clothing versus outdoor
Brent D. Payne: still passes the aria regulations and and guidelines so anyway.
Mark Kirzhner: Attribute is just a low, level HTML attribute.
Brent D. Payne: Yup. It's just the it's in your. A tag title equals double quotes inside your a tag.
Mark Kirzhner: Really.
Brent D. Payne: I see.
Mark Kirzhner: Okay.
Brent D. Payne: And then monetization
Brent D. Payne: engagement. QR. Codes
Brent D. Payne: got it blog?
Brent D. Payne: I do.
Brent D. Payne: I do. I
Brent D. Payne: I don't like
Brent D. Payne: people sticking blogs only in the footer like the blog link. It doesn't have enough weight
Brent D. Payne: to really make an impact. And you're really doing a disservice to your blog content if you hate your blog so much that you won't give it a nav link, then you should fix your blog
Brent D. Payne: so like that is the more important aspect of this. So I love that you have a blog link in the nav. We do currently have clients that still have the blog link only in the footer. It's just silly, so
Brent D. Payne: try and make that always happen, at least somewhere in the nav. It can be under a subnab if you want
Brent D. Payne: but at the very, very least get it up
Brent D. Payne: top and not just in the footer. Oh, you don't have a footer. You may want to have a footer for like terms and conditions, and like all the garbage pages that don't really matter.
Brent D. Payne: but I would recommend getting that getting that done.
Brent D. Payne: So your anchor text for inbound link structure, try and make it.
Brent D. Payne: Oh, either. Branded. Okay, so I like this because Google is not gonna get, you're not gonna get in trouble with Google is very normal link structure and anchor text with that link structure you have, you know, couple of URL types. Right? You have your brand, and that's it.
Brent D. Payne: If you can get.
Brent D. Payne: you know.
Brent D. Payne: artist monetization as anchor text and a few of your links that would be hugely helpful for you to rank for artist monetization, for example.
Brent D. Payne: So try and get some specific anchor text links. But if you start getting just
Brent D. Payne: anchor text links that are for
Brent D. Payne: your exact key phrase, it's not gonna work as well. So see this, we're keeping a really strong balance here between branded terms, the URL, the full URL, and then this is their money term right here. They they are an in home pet euthanasia Company. We only have 35 anchor text links coming in with that. We have branded terms and URL terms well above
Brent D. Payne: what we have for in home, pet euthanasia. But this is core to them ranking so well, for in home, pet euthanasia, we have some down here.
Brent D. Payne: Here, so you know smart ways to kind of lay out your anchor text as you start to get inbound link structure. So
Brent D. Payne: especially
Brent D. Payne: strong for
Brent D. Payne: you know, media mentions podcasts things like that making sure you get that right if you're not gonna get a lot of links, the one from the New York Times. Try and get that anchor text. Awesome. Okay? If you.
Lilliana Robinson: I think.
Brent D. Payne: And then that's cool. Run with the brand name. Okay?
Lilliana Robinson: Ali has one question for you, Brent.
Brent D. Payne: Sorry go ahead.
Lilliana Robinson: We ran out of time now.
Alejandra Guillen: Yes, super quick is is it relevant to call it blog or newsletter, or community? Does it change at all?
Brent D. Payne: It. It doesn't really matter. Google News used to hate the word blog. They've gotten away from that recently. If you're trying to get into Google News. I would maybe stay away from Blog. If you're not trying to get into Google News, which is, you know, quite a bit harder than it used to be.
Brent D. Payne: I don't know if it matters too much. We do like branding them usually, so, you know, like, I don't know the cicada corner or something, or you know what I mean, and something like that it does get in the way of
Brent D. Payne: the users finding the blog easily, so, keeping the word blog in there is helpful for the user
Brent D. Payne: but there's really no SEO benefit to changing it to something outside of blog
Brent D. Payne: and I don't think it even matters for Google news anymore. But I'm a little rusty on on that particular.
Alejandra Guillen: Thank you.
Mark Kirzhner: Brett, can you just quickly point on the anchor text link on our website?
Brent D. Payne: Yeah. So anchor text link would be. You know, these are all anchor text links. They're also navigation links. So they're both the
Brent D. Payne: a anything in the blue of the
Brent D. Payne: here, let me show you a better example is one that I like.
Brent D. Payne: So another client
Brent D. Payne: get my dog
Brent D. Payne: die naturally sure. Is there a link in here somewhere?
Brent D. Payne: So
Brent D. Payne: quality of life scales decent example.
Brent D. Payne: Read more is a terrible example of quality. Anchor text.
Brent D. Payne: Can I get?
Brent D. Payne: See how she even she's a doctor right? We don't have a profile set up yet, but we will
Brent D. Payne: in hompet euthanasia. There's a great example.
Brent D. Payne: So that helps to drive
Brent D. Payne: relevancy to the in home pet youth and Asia Page, which is here
Brent D. Payne: for us to be able to rank for in home, pet euthanasia. Look at all this text. Oh, my gosh! I love it, cause I built it
Brent D. Payne: but try and get a lot of content on your destination.
Mark Kirzhner: It is actually linked to myself, to my website, to some content.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, yeah, you can link within your internal links don't matter as much. So you know, asking your mom if you're good looking, it's like, sure. Yeah, of course, thanks, mom. But Mom usually says you're good looking unless you have one of those moms that are brutal and mean. But you know, getting a poll from like total strangers at the bar. That's a little different. Then you get a little better feedback, similar with off page SEO, or off.
Brent D. Payne: you know, off site links coming into you. Google, trust those a lot more
Brent D. Payne: because they find them to be much more valid than internal ones, but internal ones helps Google to understand what you would like to be seen as, and so sticking with the analogy. If you know you think blue eyes are awesome. Then tell Google that a million times if
Brent D. Payne: but it may not matter if no one else thinks you have beautiful blue eyes. Okay. So there you go. Alright. I personally think bald guys are awesome. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: alright trying to throw some jokes in here to keep this. Keep this going. Alright! Who is next I've got that's not you. There we go.
Lilliana Robinson: You had Circopus.
Brent D. Payne: Thank you. Yeah. Circle plus perfect.
Lilliana Robinson: And is here.
Brent D. Payne: Circle plus what do you do?
Brian Simiyu: Hi Brand, happy New Month. So we basically help accelerate our programs, manage the portfolio data. A good way to think about us is what content does for startup tables we're doing for startup metrics.
Brian Simiyu: Our landing page is not updated.
Brent D. Payne: Okay.
Brent D. Payne: So
Brent D. Payne: you are doing.
Brian Simiyu: Metrics, trades.
Brent D. Payne: Some metrics.
Brian Simiyu: Part of metrics.
Brian Simiyu: so startup metrics.
Brent D. Payne: Start, okay.
Brent D. Payne: start or.
Lilliana Robinson: For accelerator programs.
Brent D. Payne: Accelerator programs. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: so your clients or your the clients you want are techstars.
Brian Simiyu: Yes.
Brent D. Payne: You're in a great spot. Man. Good job ready to go. Okay. Alright. So startup metrics is probably the term we're going for. Let's see.
Brent D. Payne: Wow! Lots of links. Look at these.
Brent D. Payne: How did you get that to happen?
Brent D. Payne: how did you get all these links.
Brian Simiyu: This is spontaneous, not by design. I was just like randomly use case scenarios. I'd probably try to source information, and we also have our own like distribution channel
Brian Simiyu: that we think
Brian Simiyu: would generate traffic to us. We use a website what do you call it? An encyclopedia quote unquote, whereby we would source our data. We open this, our data, and from there we have links coming back to us. That's the
Brian Simiyu: the rationals are hoping also.
Brent D. Payne: These are kick ass links. Man like this is awesome. I mean, the scores here are are great. They're like real websites, and tell which I won't get into how, I can tell, but, like most of these are pretty good, have an article, maybe not. Might be a spammy site, but, like most of these, are pretty pretty amazing. The keyword number, by the way, is usually the date giveaway
Brent D. Payne: on the number of keywords that they rank for the fact that this one only rings for 8 keywords probably means that there's something wrong with this site. And Google isn't ranking it so but the rest of these are pretty good. This one here is definitely a spam site
Brent D. Payne: a. It's got the word SEO in the in the domain which I hate to say that about my own industry. But usually they're all spammers.
Brent D. Payne: and then keywords are 0.
Brent D. Payne: So so that's the entire domain doesn't ring for anything at all.
Brent D. Payne: Which, you know, it's kind of a red flag unless it's a startup. But startups don't usually have really high scores. So these guys are just gaming the system a lot. You know, some of these are gaming the system. So be careful on. You know who you're trying to pick off
Brent D. Payne: from your competitors. So that's one thing I didn't mention is that this URL can be anybody. It can be your competitor.
Brent D. Payne: Put in your competitors. Url here, grab their link structure, look and see where they're getting links from. You. Find some really, really cool ideas in here.
Brent D. Payne: but try to stay away from anyone that doesn't ring for any key phrases. The traffic number is directional.
Brent D. Payne: But Google or not, Google, all of the spammers have done a great job of figuring out how to get the traffic number up.
Brent D. Payne: Hence it's just rent a bunch of residential Ips from Amazon and go hit the page a billion times after you go to Hrs. It's really simple. But for keywords it's much more difficult, because this is indicative of what Google is allowing to rank, and so to just be careful on how much you steal from your competitor here, and which ones you grab. So I like your main structure you rank for some key phrases now only one. Why.
Lilliana Robinson: Can. Can you go back the people on the chat are asking what we're looking at here. So what is Dr. And is it correct that those are people who are linking your page on their page, and it increases legitimacy.
Brent D. Payne: Yes. So these are domain rating. Okay, so this domain rating is based off of a H refs, it's not a Google domain rating, but it is directional and tries to mimic what they're doing. So the Dr. Is for the overall domain itself, and it's also on a 0 to 100 scale a logarithmic scale. So the 0 to 100 scale is also tied back to the key phrases. So
Brent D. Payne: in a perfect world which nothing is perfect and SEO tech stars would be able to ring for any key phrase that's up to an 83 on that other. On that other list which I can't really give it a good example of, because you only got one. But over here this key keyboard difficulty
Brent D. Payne: would be the same as the Dr. They would correlate. Okay? So.
Lilliana Robinson: Connor.
Brent D. Payne: Getting a link from techstars like I've mentioned getting a link from an 83 domain. Rating score is phenomenal.
Brent D. Payne: So the closer you get to the homepage the better, and and all links period. So homepage links are awesome the farther away you get from that it becomes less powerful.
Brent D. Payne: so I mean, I could spend 2 h just talking about link building, but but in this case try and stay focused on the on the domain, rating
Brent D. Payne: generally directionally
Brent D. Payne: and then be careful if that domain
Brent D. Payne: doesn't rank for anything or close to anything like this
Brent D. Payne: or
Brent D. Payne: this one. For sure.
Brent D. Payne: Right? It just means that they're just a spam site that's doing a great job inflating these fake numbers and then selling links for hundreds of dollars per link and actually makes no impact to you whatsoever when you get links from these types of sites.
Brent D. Payne: So
Brent D. Payne: you know, was that helpful.
Brian Simiyu: Yeah. Very helpful, very helpful man.
Lilliana Robinson: Exactly.
Brent D. Payne: Great
Brent D. Payne: other questions in the chat. I'm not monitoring it perfectly, but I saw one that said, You know, if your websites change what's the question around that.
Lilliana Robinson: Nope, Nope, that was me responding, I'm managing the chat, so I'll just keep telling you.
Brent D. Payne: Cool. Thanks. Yep.
Brent D. Payne: alright. Any other questions from circle plus.
Lilliana Robinson: Allie.
Brian Simiyu: I just one quick question if you scroll down.
Brian Simiyu: I don't know if let's just scroll all the way down.
Brent D. Payne: So one thing to be careful here.
Brent D. Payne: Okay,
Brent D. Payne: search engines don't interact with the page.
Brent D. Payne: So
Brent D. Payne: you might be fine. I haven't looked at your code or how you work. But if you don't load content
Brent D. Payne: unless there's a user interaction, Google will not see it
Brent D. Payne: so super important. And all these cool, whizbang technologies that look cute and fun.
Brent D. Payne: If you are not
Brent D. Payne: loading all of the HTML and all of the content
Brent D. Payne: upon page load in the dom.
Brent D. Payne: You are shooting yourself in the foot.
Brent D. Payne: maybe worse than the foot
Brent D. Payne: because Google won't see anything. Because they don't interact. So anything that requires user interaction to load
Brent D. Payne: which I think your site's doing.
Brent D. Payne: Would be a problem, see? So I I have to scroll beyond this point in order for more content to load.
Brent D. Payne: So the only thing Google seeing on your site, which might be, why, you're only ranking for circle plus is whatever is here.
Brent D. Payne: Whatever you load. Dom, okay, so change that today.
Brent D. Payne: and get it to load everything.
Brent D. Payne: without user interaction. And that goes everybody on the call. Okay, I know it's really fun to have infinite scroll crap on your websites, but it doesn't work for SEO. Okay.
Brian Simiyu: So yeah, this one quick question. If you scroll down to encyclopedia, just scroll to the bottom. Second section from bottom. There you go
Brian Simiyu: repeat
Brian Simiyu: exactly. Just click, that I don't know if it load. So now, what we do is we're directing traffic from here.
Brian Simiyu: Is this a strategy? I mean, I would call it almost an equivalent to a blog. But what we're doing.
Brent D. Payne: So do you own disrupting dot Africa.
Brian Simiyu: Goo.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah.
Brian Simiyu: Yeah.
Brian Simiyu: I'm so a.
Brent D. Payne: The Hrs will give you lots and lots and lots and lots of credit for this.
Brent D. Payne: Google won't.
Brent D. Payne: So be careful on that. This goes back to the similar scenario of like asking your mom if you're looking but now you're asking like a cousin that didn't need to sound as weird as it did, but it just accidentally fell that way. Sorry? But like, it's like, it's still fairly easy for Google to know that you're all one big happy family. Your IP addresses your logins, the users that go there. Who you're
Brent D. Payne: who registered the domains. You know. Just all of that stuff is just really easy for Google to see. Like, okay, they're all in the same family. Sure, we'll give them some credit here, but it's not gonna weigh nearly as heavily as getting completely
Brent D. Payne: honest. Real links coming into the site that are not associated with you.
Brent D. Payne: Should you do it? If you own 50 sites, of course, absolutely. But don't think it's going to be the thing that solves it. We did a lot of this in 2,004, 2,005, 2,006. Now we isn't allowed just for one. It wasn't even around then, but we, as in the industry, we
Brent D. Payne: generated tens of thousands of blogs. They're called
Brent D. Payne: purchase a private blog networks, Vbn's private blog networks.
Brent D. Payne: and we would point 10,000 links at a certain page because we own 10,000 different domains. And it worked really, really well.
Brent D. Payne: Well, Google crushed it by the end of 2,006, or somewhere in there might years might be off slightly, and that was the end of that. So this is really
Brent D. Payne: especially, it's small scale. 1015 sites, you know. You're not gonna hurt yourself.
Brent D. Payne: but it's not going to be as nearly as powerful because we exploited this at the level of 10,000. You know, private blog networks back in.
Brent D. Payne: I don't know 20 years ago, and I'm old.
Brent D. Payne: So that's what happened. Okay do it. But
Brent D. Payne: you gotta do more than that. Okay. And traps will think because they can't figure it out. And their algorithm doesn't share it. They'll think it's just a super powerful, awesome link
Brent D. Payne: like Google will know it's your cousin. So okay, alright.
Brent D. Payne: circle plus. Thank you. Feel free to book more time. If you want
Brent D. Payne: club wreck, what do you guys do? And are you here.
Arthur Fields: Yes, we're here.
Arthur Fields: thanks, Brent. So far it's been great learning. But so what we do with club record is we help companies, review vet and hire quality candidates, faster.
Brent D. Payne: Cars.
Arthur Fields: At least. But yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Higher quality candidates for what?
Arthur Fields: For
Arthur Fields: we're kind of we're industry agnostic. So higher quality.
Brent D. Payne: Ways.
Arthur Fields: Yup for full time. Students.
Brent D. Payne: So not like house stuff. I thought I saw one of those. But maybe I was wrong.
Brent D. Payne: so you're recruiting company.
Brent D. Payne: What
Brent D. Payne: is it. Software that does it is the AI that does it.
Arthur Fields: Yeah, alright. So yeah, I wasn't complete my pitch. But yeah, so essentially so. We take AI scoring and matching and partner with gig industry, expert interviewers to create a quick turnaround time from application to to interview.
Brent D. Payne: Car.
Brent D. Payne: And so you analyze the applications that are there to get the best
Brent D. Payne: possible like applicants. I guess right.
Arthur Fields: Right sorry. Oh, yeah. Yup, sorry. AI. It creates a comprehensive job. Matt. Score and then pushes it off to a industry expert interviewer to conduct the first round interviews within within that 48 h of the applicant.
Brent D. Payne: Got it. Okay? So
Brent D. Payne: a interesting
Brent D. Payne: very, very cool tech. I would love to work with it because it's scraping data and analytics. Anyway, it sounds fun.
Brent D. Payne: freelance interviewer.
Brent D. Payne: That's what you're ranking. Number 12 for. Why, why is it so high for just the freelance interviewer? What did you do on this page?
Brent D. Payne: Comma callbook interviewer?
Arthur Fields: To be honest, I think it's so we we've actually went out and
Arthur Fields: did some sourcing. And and to to pull some
Arthur Fields: expert interviewers onto our platform.
Arthur Fields: To get them to sign up. And so
Arthur Fields: we utilize Linkedin, just like direct messaging to individuals in certain industries that we're servicing. So for for example, for our Beta test clients is in the health and wellness space. So we reached out to a lot of health and wellness, like therapists and things of that nature. To introduce ourselves and try to get them back to signing up as a expert interviewer.
Brent D. Payne: So this is probably anchor text I haven't seen yet. I would assume it is you are. This is a perfect example, and I could have done on the last one, I guess.
Brent D. Payne: But notice what content is actually being seen by Google here.
Brent D. Payne: It is very limited in comparison to
Brent D. Payne: this page I heard, it is,
Brent D. Payne: this is what Google's actually saying for text on the pages.
Brent D. Payne: Is that
Brent D. Payne: and this, and then I don't even know what this is. What is this crap inside your page?
Brent D. Payne: It's somewhere we need to get rid of it. Okay.
Arthur Fields: Yeah, so we're actually redoing our marketing page. So it's gonna have less.
Arthur Fields: But but.
Brent D. Payne: This isn't in English, right? This is like.
Arthur Fields: Says.
Brent D. Payne: Regular stuff, right.
Arthur Fields: Yeah, placeholder, stuff.
Brent D. Payne: Careful of that. And then you're scrolling of some sort is causing the same issues, the last one where it's not picking up a lot of the content. So again, get rid of anything that has to do with user interaction
Brent D. Payne: in order to load content.
Brent D. Payne: So that might be part of it. What I liked about this is that freelance interview is ranking number 12.
Brent D. Payne: Not a lot of search volume.
Brent D. Payne: But there is a lot of relevancy here. I'm gonna bet there's probably
Brent D. Payne: the
Brent D. Payne: anchor text coming in. Find out.
Brent D. Payne: I don't have any anchor text data. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: no backlinks, either, to the exact page.
Brent D. Payne: I don't know what it is.
Brent D. Payne: but someone interesting. Alright. So you are in the Hr Space.
Arthur Fields: Yes.
Brent D. Payne: Each of our blocks can be my way.
Brent D. Payne: Who is a competitor of yours? Give me that.
Arthur Fields: So I would say like indeed.
Brent D. Payne: Anyone.
Brent D. Payne: You have anyone closer to.
Arthur Fields: Actually actually use another one. Could you use paradox.
Brent D. Payne: That'd be better
Brent D. Payne: actually know the indeed guys. At least I used to paradoxcom or something else.
Arthur Fields: It's a paradox, dot IAI.
Brent D. Payne: AI got it.
Brent D. Payne: Okay, strong, strong competitor
Brent D. Payne: 113,000 back links, etc. So what are we gonna do here? We're gonna get a look at the keywords, find out what they rang for. We know they're gonna ring for the brand. So whatever
Brent D. Payne: Great Wolf Lodge this, I guess, is one of their clients.
Brent D. Payne: Yep.
Brent D. Payne: So they are ranking for client names by having individual companies in here.
Brent D. Payne: decent strategy to rank for the company that you're targeting
Brent D. Payne: more like an account. It's like there's a certain buzz word for this, but you're trying to get in front of the people that are doing the queries at the company. So you're kind of doing A, B 2 B Se. Play here, and your goal is the target. Vanity searches so as the Gray Wolf Lodge team searches for Gray Wolf Lodge. You want to try and show up high enough that they see you.
Brent D. Payne: and they're like, Hey, what the hell is this? So maybe Gray Wolf Lodge isn't perfect. But Gray Wolf Lodge hiring Gray Wolf Lodge jobs? Grey Wolf Lodge. Things like that could be an interesting play for you to build out thousands of profiles on companies and put the word hiring or jobs, or something like that inside of there, not because
Brent D. Payne: people will be necessarily searching for it, but the Hr managers might be searching for it inside of the company. It's a very powerful way to, you know. Show up, and you don't have to shop number one. You can show up somewhere on the first page, second page, because these Hr. People are going to be digging a little bit deeper and that's true for all vanity metrics.
Brent D. Payne: Fountain blue. I just actually stayed there a couple of weeks ago.
Brent D. Payne: they, you know, when you're doing a search for this term.
Brent D. Payne: They're a little low. 58.
Brent D. Payne: See what else they got in here compass group.
Brent D. Payne: Most of the stuff they ranked for seems to be that.
Brent D. Payne: But let's get positioning in the top 20 so you can target something real
Brent D. Payne: earmark. See airmark jobs.
Brent D. Payne: AI. Recruiting. That's an interesting key phrase. Only 1.9,000 searches.
Brent D. Payne: Olive Garden Camp Creek. See great wolf lodge jobs. See? Look at that so smart
Brent D. Payne: paradox, one of the other that's bit blah. Blah! Alright! Give me
Brent D. Payne: give me indeed! Instead.
Brent D. Payne: let's do this again.
Brent D. Payne: A top 20 sure volume. Yep.
Brent D. Payne: wrong way.
Brent D. Payne: There we go.
Brent D. Payne: Dee jobs, Amazon jobs, recruiting. See? They do the same thing.
Brent D. Payne: So you you need to build up profile pages by the company.
Brent D. Payne: and then add maybe something it has to do with AI and Hr. Together.
Brent D. Payne: I won't be able to get you amazing advice in the next 3 min, but spend more time with me, and we'll figure this out together. I helped, indeed, and shift gig.
Brent D. Payne: do this exact same thing. We're beating career career builder
Brent D. Payne: from shift gig. I don't think they were tech stars, but they're a Chicago company and we rang for bear for bar back jobs, bartender jobs, waitress jobs, etc, for shift gig beating out
Brent D. Payne: career builder, monster and all those. This is like almost 10 years ago now.
Brent D. Payne: But.
Arthur Fields: Regardless you work, you must work, you work, work with Paul Wolf.
Brent D. Payne: yeah, it may have been, Paul. I know I worked with Eddie Lou the most and Shawn something we're the the 2 owners at the time. Eddie is a unique character, but a really smart guy. So
Brent D. Payne: the.
Brent D. Payne: let's let's spend some time together. Figure out exactly what this is.
Arthur Fields: But it up.
Brent D. Payne: It's going to include creating company profiles, 100%.
Brent D. Payne: And then let's try and figure out a couple of other ways to do it, because these might be getting really difficult
Brent D. Payne: on the companies that matter.
Brent D. Payne: Unless we go after a niche or a bunch of smaller companies, which might be a good play, too, or we stay after a certain geography. We one with shift gig by getting links from Salt Lake City
Brent D. Payne: companies to the Salt Lake City page. We got links from DC. To the DC. Page. We got links and we didn't pick calip. We didn't pick La
Brent D. Payne: Chicago or New York. We picked smaller, like 1 million
Brent D. Payne: 800,000 population cities. And then we got links from there. The big big win for us, for shift gig was getting links from bartending schools and college recruit a college job board pages.
Brent D. Payne: So maybe look into college job board pages, find niches of like weird Institute schools, etc. They kind of break into there. We did something similar for Capex back in the day with their college rankings, pages, etc.
Brent D. Payne: So there might be some fun things to
Brent D. Payne: the playoff of there. And the guys that's for everybody on the call
Brent D. Payne: right ways. You can find localized links from the local area back to your business. If you're a local focus business, we do the same thing with, we're doing the same thing with coda pets every time they launch New City we make sure we get links from the different areas. Chamber of Commerce is a really easy one. You know, mayors, offices, etc. Talk about whatever it is that makes unique and interesting to a city or or municipality.
Brent D. Payne: getting links from, you know, local colleges and schools and stuff not even like necessarily colleges. You could give a seminar or give great information to a high school. You know, trade schools, even church schools, etc, easy links to get from a hyper local level, but
Brent D. Payne: needs to go to your hyper local page, not to your homepage, or if you script all of your link structure for your site, unless you're only located in one spot. Cut hair, you know your hair salon and one particular city not gonna go anywhere, and you can send it to your homepage, but generally send it to your individual like location pages. When you get those types of links. If you can control, if you can't, it's not that big a deal unless you do it mass, then it becomes a problem for your homepage. So I'm going off into tangents, but helpful ones, I hope.
Brent D. Payne: Alright club wreck. I'm moving on.
Arthur Fields: Follow with you great thanks.
Brent D. Payne: Thanks, man! Dub prime, are you here? And what do you do?
Lilliana Robinson: Let's see, are the Dev prime guys still here?
Lilliana Robinson: They may have jumped off.
Lilliana Robinson: Vincent.
Lilliana Robinson: Good.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. Next.
Brent D. Payne: Go house, go house.
Lilliana Robinson: Fully both here.
Felipe - Gohaus: Hi, there!
Felipe - Gohaus: Hi, everyone, we today, we are
Felipe - Gohaus: AI power platform for home, personalized. Really, core redesign renovation.
Felipe - Gohaus: So today we are focused more more in the core. And we integrate this platform with the retailers company.
Felipe - Gohaus: Yeah, so we work with the retailer integrating this platform and their customer can have this experience of
Felipe - Gohaus: renewing or redecorating, redesigning their home.
Brent D. Payne: Okay? And are you redecorating with furniture, or are you painting thing? Are you doing everything? Got it.
Felipe - Gohaus: We are. We are today focus more in in decoration and elements, like furnitures and decorative elements. And then we are going to move into more paintings and maybe construction of. But today is more decoration.
Brent D. Payne: Okay, so one of our clients, like a furniture rental company, or they were
Brent D. Payne: are you renting the furniture? Or are you
Brent D. Payne: selling the furniture.
Felipe - Gohaus: We are, and and we are only the integrator here. So we integrate.
Brent D. Payne: You're the designer.
Felipe - Gohaus: Very weird. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Like. So like the interior decorator, interior designer.
Felipe - Gohaus: Yeah. For example, if you go up you can try the platform with Walmart in Chile a bit more up. We have 3 platform today, the living room, the terrace, and the baby room. So you can design you the 3 of those and the checkout process of every furniture that you buy is with.
Felipe - Gohaus: Walmart, or leader in this case.
Brent D. Payne: Got it.
Brent D. Payne: Okay, you will.
Felipe - Gohaus: To this platform. You put your size, you know we discourage your decorative style, and then we show you a mood for, and then, with the checkout. It will be everything from to from the retailer.
Brent D. Payne: Okay.
Brent D. Payne: got it. Got it? Got it? Okay?
Brent D. Payne: So you have an app that walks you through this, etc.
Brent D. Payne: And this is
Brent D. Payne: Spanish mostly.
Felipe - Gohaus: Sorry.
Brent D. Payne: You're mostly Spanish folks, your Spanish, or is it something.
Felipe - Gohaus: Yeah, we is Spanish or or language in Chile. I'm based in Chile.
Brent D. Payne: Oh, nice. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: my
Brent D. Payne: entire one side of my family is from Chili, like.
Felipe - Gohaus: But nicer.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, so, so.
Felipe - Gohaus: Happy, to.
Brent D. Payne: Fun. I've never been there.
Brent D. Payne: Alright. So
Brent D. Payne: what can we do here? Go back to start? Yeah.
Felipe - Gohaus: Done. You have to return to the web page. We'll host data. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Umhm baby.
Brent D. Payne: This is the app. So I gotta get out of here, too. So let's find out
Brent D. Payne: what we're doing with these different sections. So we have 13 links.
Brent D. Payne: the whole domain.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, we have anything going into here.
Felipe - Gohaus: And we just change this. This web page 2 weeks ago is the new one.
Brent D. Payne: Got it? One referring domain ghouse. What is goo house? Do you know.
Felipe - Gohaus: The the latest one before.
Brent D. Payne: That we have.
Felipe - Gohaus: Name. And yeah.
Brent D. Payne: They got it.
Felipe - Gohaus: We changed.
Brent D. Payne: Let's look and see what you're doing with Google House. This be a good thing to dial everyone.
Brent D. Payne: Okay? So
Brent D. Payne: go to your house.
Brent D. Payne: What happens? Okay, you do redirect.
Brent D. Payne: So everyone need to make sure you do 3, one redirects from any of your previous companies or domains that is relevant to your current business.
Brent D. Payne: Really important that you take the time to do that. Think through any companies that you may have done before example for me. I
Brent D. Payne: started a lyric website back in 2,003. And I was super excited about it. Managed to rank on a bunch of nickel back lyrics specifically so I couldn't understand what Chad Kroger was saying when you said, Look at this photograph. And I ended up ranking really well for a bunch of nickel back stuff, I think. Got sued for 57 billion dollars by the music industry, because I guess lyrics are legal. So oops
Brent D. Payne: and then I had the choice of either. Continue to get sued for 57 billion dollars from Warner Chapel music, or unplug my server. That was literally in my closet. So I unplugged my server from my closet hindsight. I probably would have fought them, and probably one. And I'd probably be a billionaire by now. But that is okay. Okay, So
Brent D. Payne: point to this is that
Brent D. Payne: I've
Brent D. Payne: forwarded lyric vault.com to loud interactive in 2 in 2,011 when we started lyric fault or sorry when we started loud, interactive.
Brent D. Payne: I rank for Nickelback lyrics on
Brent D. Payne: loud interactive without any nickel back lyrics on the site for another 2 years, because that's how powerful it was. The inbound link structure coming in from all the press negative press that I got from Warner chapel music and me having nickel back lyrics. Okay? So
Brent D. Payne: hey, I love nickel back. Don't judge number 2.
Brent D. Payne: relevancy does pass through to your domains. So please. 3, one redirect anything relevant? We're not trying to ring for nickel back on an SEO website. But we are trying to pass anything forward that we possibly can.
Brent D. Payne: I truly believe that the authority that came from that help loud to be successful and being able to rank for terms that we had no right ranking for that were in our industry.
Brent D. Payne: But I don't know if that would be applicable now. You know, 15 years later. So your mileage may vary on the authority push, but I think if it's relevant, you should absolutely get it d1301 redirects are better. And I'm glad to hear that you guys are up are updating that.
Brent D. Payne: The next thing.
Lilliana Robinson: That was an amazing story, Brent. Also that that's our timer for cohouse, so that we can get through a couple of. So if you wanna just wrap.
Brent D. Payne: I wanna mention one thing for the group. When you do an update for any type of 3, one redirect, you need to get a few of the old links
Brent D. Payne: manually changed
Brent D. Payne: to go to the new website.
Brent D. Payne: Google just doesn't trust old
Brent D. Payne: like and domain changes. They don't. They don't trust the main changes
Brent D. Payne: unless they have some other signals to verify that that domain legitimately changed. Why.
Brent D. Payne: there's a lot of
Brent D. Payne: seos are buying expired domains of companies that went out of business, and they're 301 redirecting them to their site.
Brent D. Payne: And so for $12 they can grab 12,000 15,000 links and get it redirected to their site. Google is trying to stop this
Brent D. Payne: by making sure that some of the links that were on the Internet did truly change from Goohouse to go house in the HTML itself, and not just relying on the 301.
Brent D. Payne: So you guys would be really wise to go update your crunch, base techstars, etc.
Felipe - Gohaus: Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Sites that you can change from Google House to go house. Okay? And that goes to everybody.
Brent D. Payne: Alright. Who's next?
Lilliana Robinson: Graham.
Brent D. Payne: Gift. Graham.
Brent D. Payne: join once. Yeah.
Kevin: Hey, Brent?
Brent D. Payne: They are great. What do you guys do? So.
Kevin: So we are in the process of pivoting. But we're converting digital gift cards into nft memberships for independent restaurants, to drive loyalty
Kevin: and guest identification.
Brent D. Payne: Love it. We work very closely with Race for quite a while. Until George moved to Florida.
Brent D. Payne: So we aren't working with him much anymore. And he also was associated with some pretty crazy things that happened in Chicago around a different startup.
Brent D. Payne: But anyway, so
Brent D. Payne: I like the idea here. Be careful of fraud. It's really, really, really big deal.
Brent D. Payne: And.
Kevin: I used to work for race, so I know very well.
Brent D. Payne: Great. Yeah, alright. So you know everything about it. I'm glad.
Lilliana Robinson: And would it?
Lilliana Robinson: Is it helpful to go through this website? If you're pivoting like? Would this be a good use of time.
Lilliana Robinson: Or do, you would just want high level advice, since you're not gonna use this as much.
Kevin: Yeah, I mean, we, it's it's still gonna be different. I/O, so yeah.
Brent D. Payne: So.
Kevin: So gonna be the I/O.
Brent D. Payne: Sharing with the I/O, so! And you're moving to nfts now, right, that's about.
Kevin: Like right.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, correct.
Kevin: Acts. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: So let's look at nfts specifically.
Brent D. Payne: Oh, I just get my tongue.
Brent D. Payne: alright, we're gonna filter immediately.
Brent D. Payne: Get the keyword difficulty of being like a 30 or below and see what's left on the nfts.
Brent D. Payne: One.
Brent D. Payne: Okay, so Nfc news.
Brent D. Payne: And this is, you're doing an nft to subscribe to a restaurant. So what restaurants are using nfts and explain how that works and what the scale is on the nft and restaurant tie in.
Kevin: Yeah, so there's really not many right now that are, it's it's very relatively new. So we're we're kind of gearing it towards a purpose to really drive guest loyalty and engagement.
Kevin: So it's a it's a membership type of situation that we're gonna create the nft.
Brent D. Payne: Oh, someone who's doing.
Kevin: Provided with it.
Brent D. Payne: I know someone who's selling tickets like culture tickets on the blockchain
Brent D. Payne: and nfts and stuff. May be a great guy to connect you with, so I can't remember his name right now, nor the company but he's being very successful in the Chicagoland area. One of our top clients back in the day was like a a Chicago ticketing broker. Cold coast tickets, to be exact, but I can't remember what the.
Lilliana Robinson: Is that Michael Saunders.
Brent D. Payne: It is. Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: Crazy. I used to work for that company as a coder before they pivoted. They used to be in restaurants that I worked there when I was Captain.
Brent D. Payne: Oh, well, there you go. Yeah, captain, that that is his name. Yes, captain. So
Lilliana Robinson: That is crazy. Brett.
Brent D. Payne: He? Yeah, he actually introduced me to Mr. Beast, which I thought was really cool of them to do. And you had to talk to their team, not not him specifically, etc. Alright, we're off on on a tangent. We got time. So
Brent D. Payne: nfts. And
Brent D. Payne: is it gifting? Is it? Restaurants like? What? What is my, what's my filter word here like? What? What is it? Is it going to be restaurants.
Kevin: Yeah, independent restaurants or restaurants.
Brent D. Payne: Let me try restaurant, see what happens.
Brent D. Payne: Know if we're gonna get anywhere here?
Brent D. Payne: No, not really.
Brent D. Payne: But it starts. Yeah. You know, we have
Brent D. Payne: a hundred.
Brent D. Payne: Yes, not 0.
Brent D. Payne: What's Fly Fish Club? What is this.
Kevin: Flyfish Club is Gary Vee's place, so he's trying to establish the First Nft restaurant.
Brent D. Payne: That's fun.
Brent D. Payne: So can we get Gary v
Brent D. Payne: terms and static? Can we play off of there?
Brent D. Payne: This is complicated.
Brent D. Payne: We could write for some Gary v stuff. But, Gary, if you would.
Brent D. Payne: might come after you, too.
Brent D. Payne: There's a whole other story about
Brent D. Payne: how I got in trouble with Taylor Swift, Taylor Swift. 22.com once. So be careful on how you go after some of these people, cause they have really aggressive trademark people.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, May
Brent D. Payne: Gary might be one of them. Alright, I am going to beg you to get a hold of me. Offline.
Brent D. Payne: And we're gonna walk
Brent D. Payne: through things much more detailed, and spend a lot more time giving me a headache on trying to figure how to get this done right for you. But this is too complicated during this short amount of time. So I'm gonna skip you, Kevin. I'm sorry. Please.
Kevin: Joyce.
Brent D. Payne: We can talk about George, and apparently captain. Now, too. Okay.
Kevin: Yes, love it.
Brent D. Payne: Corzo! What do you guys do?
Brent D. Payne: Are you there.
Jeremy Banning: Hey? We are a Fintech company. Corezal helps. People
Jeremy Banning: know when and where their money is being spent, and how it can be used to work harder for them in their daily lives.
Jeremy Banning: This site here is a landing page. We changed this, maybe 2 days ago.
Jeremy Banning: maybe 2, 3 days ago.
Brent D. Payne: Got it. Are you linking out here? No good. Don't be putting Logos on your homepage and then linking out, okay.
Brent D. Payne: I like the Logos really really awesome for like social proof.
Brent D. Payne: But Jp. Morgan and techstars and Vm. Plug and play don't need your links, so do not do that. And you're not. But I see a lot of techstars. Companies do this. You need to be very, very like
Brent D. Payne: conservative with where you're linking out to. And it shouldn't be these. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: this is just brutal man, brutal. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: I get that, we need to have terms and conditions and certain industries. And Yeti Yeti
Brent D. Payne: like, make this load only upon user interaction. Please. Okay, so that we can get all of this crap out of Google's algorithm.
Brent D. Payne: And this thing does not load until you scroll down the page, and then you can load all the terms and conditions and crap that you want down here.
Brent D. Payne: This will kill your site if you don't get rid of all of this text, so make it only happen under user interaction.
Brent D. Payne: Put it in an image like there's like a million things you can do but I don't want Google. Seeing this on your pages, we worked closely with unrealistic.com. Now they used to be something else adobe
Brent D. Payne: back from one of the techstars company, I think 2013
Brent D. Payne: and
Brent D. Payne: they took 7 months to get rid of their terms and conditions. Crap! It was like 3 times longer than this. It was just brutal. We finally figured out a way to do it. I didn't think of. I don't think it was the option for a a upon user interaction. But get rid of this. That is your biggest problem with this page than anything else. Talk to. Your money is also super vague and ambiguous. Don't you know what it means?
Brent D. Payne: It's cute, but it's 2 wings and a prayer.
Brent D. Payne: Versus, you know, plane crashes in the Hudson River. So be mindful of being relevant like I opened with in this entire seminar, because you're not being relevant with this title? Tags.
Brent D. Payne: Talk to your money again. So what is this whole talk to your money thing like what? What? Why are we all in on talk to your money?
Brent D. Payne: That might be.
Valentina | korzo: Been here a little bit, and it would have been nice to have the older website. So really, this is a lot of advice that we've received from some of the textors mentor. And it's all about connecting to our customer from like a more emotional lens. So we had a website with all the different sections, and about the product and our mission and vision, and all these things, and we temporarily, since we're preparing for the land, the launch of our app. By end of this month
Valentina | korzo: we decided to have a more taser type of landing page that we're going to be using across different
Valentina | korzo: social and marketing channel. So that's why this one is not intended to like really tell you much, because it's going to be a company.
Valentina | korzo: Other different efforts on, you know, the whole go to market.
Valentina | korzo: But
Valentina | korzo: for our actual official, we're working on the actual official website that's going to be
Valentina | korzo: released soon, maybe in a couple of weeks from now, too.
Valentina | korzo: So we will. I'll definitely hole in your word, and we'll definitely bug you after that main website is launched, so we can have some of your feedback.
Valentina | korzo: But going back to the
Valentina | korzo: going back to like the section of you were saying like the terms, and how heavily regulated it is. It is something we do struggle to. And even if even if you go to our blog, not anymore, but even below. Like the blog post, we had at least closure in the past about how this is. Educational content not meant to be doing financial advice. Da da da.
Brent D. Payne: Hi.
Valentina | korzo: So how do we? How do we go about that? We thought cause we never! I never even thought this could hurt our.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah. So everything I told everyone to stop doing upon the user interaction scrolling because Google can't see it. I want you to do that instead.
Brent D. Payne: So put it under code that is only
Brent D. Payne: visible upon user interaction, some type of Javascript thing or a G query thing or something. I'm not a coder. But that's what you're looking for. And then it still shows up on the page for the humans.
Brent D. Payne: because the humans need to see it, or else. All of the lawyers freak out.
Brent D. Payne: But it doesn't need to be there for the search engines. So let's get that removed. Be careful.
Brent D. Payne: because some of your partnerships will require that some text shows up. We're also gonna audit you.
Brent D. Payne: And so
Brent D. Payne: you should work with your partners because, for example, with the Mls. And real estate stuff.
Brent D. Payne: On real estate.com had to be very cautious about, you know, when they were using content from the Mls. There had to be a certain disclaimer on there, and the Mls audits it. So they see their text on the website. Because they're scraping the web, grabbing this stuff.
Brent D. Payne: they and they don't see the disclaimer.
Brent D. Payne: Then you get in trouble. So
Brent D. Payne: you know, you're gonna need to have a fairly decent programmer. Look at how you're gonna do this. But the secret to this is put it under
Brent D. Payne: upon user interaction, and then communicate well
Brent D. Payne: with your suppliers or lawyers, or whatever on what you guys are doing in case they're doing some type of automation to
Brent D. Payne: to to audit you. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: so that's the biggest thing. Do talk to me in 2 weeks.
Brent D. Payne: As for the talk to your money thing, I'm not a brand marketer. I
Brent D. Payne: I see ones and zeros people like whatever like, if that's what you guys want to do, that's that's awesome. I don't like it because it's not relevant.
Brent D. Payne: So we need to find some
Brent D. Payne: some way to win on both.
Brent D. Payne: so that you guys can get the brand message that you want, you know. Speak to the warmth and fuzzy feelings of people's emotions
Brent D. Payne: and also get, you know.
Brent D. Payne: the math and science people. Probably a lot of finance people
Brent D. Payne: to to your pages as well. So
Brent D. Payne: you know. Relevancy need relevancy. I don't see it here, but it's a landing page, and it's for a different purpose. So talk to me. In 2 weeks I'm moving on
Lilliana Robinson: Brent.
Brent D. Payne: Yep.
Lilliana Robinson: Since we only have 3 min left. Could we just open it to any questions before.
Brent D. Payne: Oh, yeah, sure.
Lilliana Robinson: We wrap.
Brent D. Payne: Go, guys hit me with your QA.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone have any questions? Anyone we didn't get to? Specifically, I wanna open the floor for you guys.
Lilliana Robinson: anything that Brian can help you with before he leaves. Yeah, go ahead.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Yeah, so our site using the client side rendering.
Snow Lee / Runbear: And then, yeah, as far as I understand, as far as I I know Google sees that.
Snow Lee / Runbear: But we tried with the A. A.
Snow Lee / Runbear: H. Ref. And I don't think they'd see.
Brent D. Payne: Or what's your brand, or what's your
Snow Lee / Runbear: Rum, Rumbert.
Brent D. Payne: Run there!
Snow Lee / Runbear: floppair.com, and yeah rumbale rumbale dot I/O.
Brent D. Payne: Like here, but.
Snow Lee / Runbear: It will be redirected to the primary. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Okay? So
Brent D. Payne: Google does read Javascript. Okay, Google has a a system to do this. So one, they come to your page.
Brent D. Payne: They determine whether your page is worthy or not to have Javascript done.
Brent D. Payne: and that's a huge
Brent D. Payne: hurdle right there
Brent D. Payne: and then they'll come back with a Javascript reader.
Brent D. Payne: and read the page from the Javascript reader, the Javascript reader still does not interact with the page.
Brent D. Payne: So that's still a huge difference. Google can read the Javascript, and all the cool things you have as long as it's loaded in the Dom.
Brent D. Payne: But if you need to interact, they no longer are going to see any of that stuff. I don't like Javascript
Brent D. Payne: content that matters
Brent D. Payne: because you have to get past the first barrier of entry of. Are you important enough to send out the Javascript crawler.
Brent D. Payne: and for a startup
Brent D. Payne: you don't want to be in that situation.
Brent D. Payne: so hydrate your pages from next Js.
Brent D. Payne: Make sure you have very little things in Javascript that that are important. Like, don't put nav and javascript, etc.
Brent D. Payne: And then go from there.
Brent D. Payne: Okay?
Brent D. Payne: Great change. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: And so.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Thank you for that back.
Lilliana Robinson: Dan, from web. Video, do you have any questions? Because I feel like yours? Is super relevant to this. And we didn't get to you?
Lilliana Robinson: Or does he have to drop.
Dan Ponomarenko: No, I'm here. Yeah, I'm here. Yeah, I I do actually have a question. I I brend, I I I do have some mark digital marketing the ground myself. So and I we already like we already have like keep. We already did the keyword search. We already did the keyword allocations. We already have some content strategy in place with
Dan Ponomarenko: you know, commercial intent versus in a in, in in intentional or informational intent. My question is regards to keyword. Can you believe cannabilization?
Dan Ponomarenko: Because I talk with different agency, and some of them saying that E, like. So, for example, you have a target keywords that most of your competitors are ranking off right. And we have specialized industry pages for like feature by feature. Right so, and we using this keywords on this particular page.
Dan Ponomarenko: But the same time what I did before I use the same keywords on for my home page or any other pages. do you think like like? And Edges is usually saying that it's kinda cannibalize if you use the same group of keywords
Dan Ponomarenko: between multiple pages.
Dan Ponomarenko: and they offer us some like very unreliable keywords with the like low keyword search which is, I don't know if it's like really true, because I don't see that much
Dan Ponomarenko: effect of like
Dan Ponomarenko: that. New keywords that, like brand new compared to our target keywords on the home page.
Brent D. Payne: Here's an example of you.
Dan Ponomarenko: Organization. It's a, it's a thing.
Brent D. Payne: Yes, so perfect example of this is right here in Google Search Council. If you don't have Google Search Council set up for your site should have started with this, go get Google, search, console. It is a direct line of communication from Google.
Brent D. Payne: How do you know about cannab cannibalization? In other words, Mo, you have multiple pages
Brent D. Payne: on your site
Brent D. Payne: ranking for the same stuff.
Brent D. Payne: How do you find it? How do you know it's occurring? Easy Google search, console. Pick the query that you're trying to target
Brent D. Payne: and then go to your pages. Report.
Brent D. Payne: this is heavily embedded real data. So please don't screenshot this heavily in Bennett for April's.
Brent D. Payne: They are getting 178,000 impressions to the apron's page. The essential brown apron is a product. Page can't really get rid of that. That herbal garden. One is another one, but the home page. Here is another term.
Brent D. Payne: There's another page that also rings for aprint.
Brent D. Payne: Now, should we freak out and go? Oh, my God! Like where you have 2 pages ranking for the same thing? No, because there's only 1,700 impressions happening on the homepage. Who cares?
Brent D. Payne: A 178,000 is the impressions for the all aprons page who's winning here? Obviously the all aprons page. So that's the one we want to focus on. When we get into a much more difficult scenario like their new knife knives or knives, chef, chef knives, etc, we get into a situation where
Brent D. Payne: we have a bit of more of an issue. Okay, now, this is 26,000 29,000 impressions and 53,000 impressions. This is true cannibalization. Why? Because you have a high percentage of the impressions going to 2 different pages that are very similar. Knives and chefs knives. You have clicks at 43 and 20. So again, very, very tight a knife here.
Brent D. Payne: this should be resolved. How do we resolve it way? Too much time for me to be able to handle for you. But you want to pick a word for here and pick a word for here. You gotta do some research find out which one's which. But this is true cannibalization.
Brent D. Payne: the one before. But the lower percentages is not okay.
Brent D. Payne: hey, Fred.
Lilliana Robinson: One. Yeah, yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Okay, this is not a big deal.
Brent D. Payne: because these are products. You can't get rid of them.
Brent D. Payne: Although great tip here for you guys, if you were to link to the
Brent D. Payne: on
Brent D. Payne: this page
Brent D. Payne: all these pages kind of link to each other. Just pick one. You pick all 5 of these and link back to one of these pages, you would also solve the problem of cannibalization, so find the ones that are that are almost cannibalizing each other are cannibalizing each other, and then try and link to one option.
Brent D. Payne: And versus
Brent D. Payne: having a flat link structure internally
Brent D. Payne: works better if it's external links. But internal links will make the difference here, too.
Brent D. Payne: We solved a lot of these problems with Groupon, for example, by what we put in the nav and what we put in the footer mostly the nav, in order to solve these internal issues. But they are a very large site, with hundreds of thousands of pages with decent inbound link structure from external. So they are not anywhere near being the same type of of site that you are. But that is, those are ways you can solve it. Love? The question that was awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: Question, Dan Brent, do you have time for one more cause? Valeria.
Brent D. Payne: I'm good for another 10 min, and then I need to get out of here.
Lilliana Robinson: Amazing.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, if if you guys want to stay, if you don't, that's cool.
Valeria Brenner: Awesome. Well, Brian, first of all, thank you so much. This was incredibly informative. I am just like I've just been taking notes like the entire meeting. It's been crazy. But I was gonna say, like, SEO is something that I'm not well versed in. And so like, this was a big learning experience for me, and I feel like there are a lot of turns that like flew over my head. And like, while I was googling some things like something new would come up, and I just got torn a lot of different directions. Do you have any kind of recommendations of like a good starting place to really get the fundamentals.
Brent D. Payne: I'll see you now.
Valeria Brenner: Like a crash. Course.
Brent D. Payne: I like the SEO Starter guide.
Brent D. Payne: by Google.
Brent D. Payne: why
Brent D. Payne: not only is this tell you a good starter guide for SEO,
Brent D. Payne: but it also tells you Google's perspective on everything SEO.
Valeria Brenner: Huh!
Brent D. Payne: You gotta know what the speed limit is if you're gonna
Brent D. Payne: decide whether you're gonna follow it or break it. Okay? So this tells you what the speed limit is like. I'm best friends with the chief of police in town, so I can go 45 and a 30 and not worry about it. Okay, same thing with Google regulations. You gotta know where you're at and what you need to do.
Brent D. Payne: And then if you choose to break those rules. That's your own choice, but at least you're informed on what they are. So I prefer this one first. It's not a bad read. You can also just chat cpt at a few times. If you wanna like, give some synopsis and do the cliff notes version.
Brent D. Payne: Mars is decent. It gets a little
Brent D. Payne: self promoting. That's not bad.
Brent D. Payne: Backlinko!
Brent D. Payne: He was pretty good. He's sold recently, so I don't know what his company is like now that he sold it.
Dan Ponomarenko: Alright! Where's a where's checklist I used before from several like from Sam Rush. I think it's pretty decent
Brent D. Payne: Same rush is good search engine land or search engine journal. I like overall for decent info
Brent D. Payne: but really, you know.
Brent D. Payne: anything
Brent D. Payne: looks like most anything that shows up for SEO starter guide is not bad. Your Sam Rush is right here.
Brent D. Payne: you know, but anybody can make these now, because
Brent D. Payne: with the Lms like this, one's pretty good. It does cover a lot of stuff. It's kinda just quickly, quickly scrolling through.
Brent D. Payne: So, Dan, I I'm impressed. I like your your guide. Read the Google one first and just pick one that you like if you get bored flipped to a different one. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: it's SEO. So it's not gonna be like super unfrailing. But I won't be too bad. Okay.
Valeria Brenner: Awesome. Thank you, sir.
Brent D. Payne: Careful. Be careful on
Brent D. Payne: careful in reading too many blogs on SEO, cause
Brent D. Payne: you'll start to get confused and wonder why we don't agree on anything
Brent D. Payne: like we don't have the recipe to the Colonel's chicken.
Brent D. Payne: We just eat a piece of chicken, and we're like, yeah, kind of feels like there's some flour in here, a little bit of red pepper flakes, and we go do it like it's like hell's kitchen like when they try and mimic chef. Gordon Ramsey's stuff right.
Brent D. Payne: Like we. We don't know what the hell we're doing exactly. We're getting it together generally.
Brent D. Payne: So you'll see a lot of conflicts and and opposing opinions in the industry.
Brent D. Payne: So
Brent D. Payne: Google, so source of truth, Google always will tell you what to do to improve the users. Blah blah blah. But
Brent D. Payne: You know they're going to be all about content. Content is King blah blah blah.
Brent D. Payne: They're also not going to lie. They might say something today and then tomorrow, change something and not tell you for 10 years. They're very good at that, but they're not gonna lie in the moment that they say it, because it's too much of a legal risk for them.
Brent D. Payne: Too many people are involved. So listen to Google, Google has a really good podcast called Search off the record.
Brent D. Payne: which I like as well.
Brent D. Payne: so more interesting.
Valeria Brenner: Really.
Brent D. Payne: so and you get to learn the personalities of the people that are involved in Google search console as well.
Brent D. Payne: so they're very, very, very, very nerdy people.
Brent D. Payne: I like Gary a lot. But he's more my personality. He's very blunt, bold, rude, like just aggressive Guy. John Mueller. Super nice, but a little too nice, and then they got something. Spliff can't remember his name right now.
Brent D. Payne: That's a little more alt if you would.
Brent D. Payne: let's see what else.
Brent D. Payne: Anyway, this isn't a bad one. I'll put in the chat so you guys can go look at it.
Brent D. Payne: Again, Google is, gonna tell you from Google's perspective. So
Brent D. Payne: pay attention to who the author is, pay attention to who's writing, giving the the advice. Everyone has.
Brent D. Payne: you know, a motive. So be careful. Okay.
Brent D. Payne: Alright. What else? Any other questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we have time for, like one more question. Let's see, like talks lexer Travaris. All the companies we didn't get to do any of you have any questions.
Lilliana Robinson: or are you good to go.
Lilliana Robinson: or anyone? We have time for one more
Lilliana Robinson: jump all.
Brent D. Payne: Alright! We.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: Email, I think we're working. Yeah.
Brent D. Payne: Yeah, yeah. So shoot me an email Brent at loud Us. If I don't answer in 24 HII won't see it. So I get about 300 emails a day. So hit me again. Brent at you know. Sorry Brent's calendar.com for booking meetings with me. Don't book more than 30 min. If I blow you off, it's because I do have paying clients keep coming back. I won't blow you off 3 times in a row, but I might get you once or twice. And
Brent D. Payne: I love all you guys. You are amazing people. I love entrepreneurship. I would never, ever, ever go work for the man again. So I love what you guys are doing. And I pray that a high percentage of you guys are successful, and for those that aren't
Brent D. Payne: figure it out like you'll try third, fourth, fifth company from now you'll nail it, and it's still better than making 12 bucks an hour somewhere. Okay, so congrats on all of you for making it this far techstars. I'm super proud of you. I wanna help you as much as I possibly can. I got a business to run to. So okay, talk to you all soon, hopefully. Okay. And.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you.
Brent D. Payne: I'll talk to you guys later. Alright, see? You.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, thanks for your time.
Brent D. Payne: Thanks, my friend, talk to you later.
Lilliana Robinson: Bye.